# runt

Runt is a polyglot command runner designed for managing menial commands.
It automatically generates a CLI based off of a Runtfile in your
current working directory. This Runtfile is a simple markdown file
that contains a list of commands and their descriptions. It even works
with nested commands. Check out the example [Runtfile](./Runtfile)
in this repo!

## Usage

To use runt, pass the name of a command to the runt command.

```bash
runt [command]
```

## Todo

- Switch to typed recursive decent parsing to properly support different types of
  in headers and paragraphs, such as text, links, and a combination thereof
- Support other shells
- Setup some syntax for declaring arguments, probably using lists

## Runtfile

The Runtfile consists of three parts:

1. The command name, which is declared in a header
2. A description for the command
3. Code to be executed for that command

### Command Name

The command name is declared in a header using the `#` character. The
number of `#` characters determines the level of nesting your command
will reside in, relative to the nearest parent command. For example,
the following Runtfile:

````markdown
# Containers

## ls

List all containers

```bash
docker ps -a
```
````

will generate a CLI that has a container command with an ls subcommand.
This is how you would run the command with runt:

```sh
runt container ls
```

There is even autogenerated help which will include the description under
ls! Running this command:

```sh
runt container --help
```

Will give you:

```
Usage: runt container [COMMAND]

Commands:
  ls    List all containers
  help  Print this message or the help of the given subcommand(s)

Options:
  -h, --help  Print help
```

Command names can also have spaces or capital letters. Spaces are
automatically converted into hyphens and capital letters are
automatically converted into lowercase letters. For example, the
following Runtfile:

````markdown
# Containers

## List All

List all containers

```bash
docker ps -a
```
````

will generate a CLI that has a container command with a list-all
subcommand:

```sh
runt container list-all
```
